# Airgead-banking

#This applications purpose is to create two tables to figure out how much money you will have year end when using a saving account. The two tables are: Balance year end without including monthly increments, and balance year end while including monthly increments. When the application runs, it will ask the user to input information regarding these questions: Initial investment (money already in bank) , Monthly deposits (how much you will be adding to the account per month) , interest rate (the interest rate that is provided by your bank, or account), years (how many years you want to calcuate for). tables will display two columns to show balance at the end of the year and total interest earned for that year. 

#What I think I did well on this project is the two functions I created to calcuate the year end balance and year end interest, one for using monthly increments and one without. Both functions I think I used an efficient for loop to get the data needed and kept the lines of code at a decent minimum. With the montly increments, I felt it was an easy and clever solution to use the modulo operator to find multiples of 12 to reset the month end interest to avoid a accumlation for multiple years being calculated. 

#Things i can improve: The menu function has a if conditional for each option to catch if someone inputs something that shouldn't be inpuitted. The code is repeating for every option. I would assume theres a much better way to go about this, thinking that since its repeating if it was its own indivdual function, I would just need to figure out a way to do that because though it is mostly repeating but there is a like a couple lines that would need to be changed based on the question its catching. 
#Another thing I could approve easily is my naming of the variables. I originally was trying to think of ways to make the variables as clear as possible by being very specific. But I think in this case that they are bit long, and the abreviations I use and the word choice for some of them actually make them extremely confusing. Since most of the variables are local, they could have just been simple like Interest, Balance, instead I had some pretty crazy naming. 

#There was two parts of the code that I struggled with for a little bit. The first one was simple fix but it took me a decent amount of time to figure out a fix. I was trying to figure out a way to reset the monthly interest when it hit 12 months. I was using i for the for loop to increment with months based on the user input. I realized right away I couldn't just say if i was 12 reset, because i would never be equal to month set so the loop would be endless, that all I would need to fix this is to ask the program to check if i is a multiple of 12. Eventually after searching through our textbook I saw the moduluo operator which sole purpose is to check if it is a multiple. The second issue was with asking for input, figuring out a way to have a conditional check if the input is whats expected, like if its expecting an int, and they type a character. Stackoverflow for me has been an amazing resource to figure out most of my issues

#I think all the skills I have learned in this course will be useful for future courses and projects. This course has taught me to have a lot of my coding done in functions, to avoid cluttering my main. There's lots of ways to sort your data, and organize your code by functions, methods, and the use of classes. 

#I think other then my naming of variables like mentioned before, this code is still readable. Because the main function of my code is not cluttered and everything this code does is in seperate functions. A user can spend time looking at individual functions, can make changes to them, and test the output. Things that can be adapated is like the conditional to check for proper input, that can mostly be changed to a more efficient method. 
